

--
Basic Idea:

The sediment transport model's purpose is to provide a dynamical
update to bathymetry and its covariance between forecast cycles, by
considering the basic sediment transport equations and parameter
uncertainty.  As a bonus, uncertain sediment transport parameters can
be estimated based on the updates, BUT I will not include them as
time-dependent sequentially updated parameters, i.e. I will assume
such parameters are temporally uncorrelated between forecast cycles.

Put another way, we are assimilating hydrodynamic data to provide
constraints on the uncertain morphodynamics.

The key advantage of this scheme is that it keeps the full sediment
transport model out of the "outer loop" during assimlation.  It only
comes in at the forecast step.

--
Assimilation cycle:

0a) Define initial bathymetry at time t=t(0).  Initialize covariances
    for (a) the initial bathymetry, (b) sediment transport parameters,
    and (c) wave model parameters.  Note, parameters (b)-(c) and their
    covariances will not be updated sequentially, but they serve to
    provide uncertainty estimates for bathymetry.

0b) Use the initial bathymetry plus covariances to make a forecasted
    bathymetry for t(1), including forecast covariance.  Provide the
    full covariance matrix for the updated bathymetry including
    cross-covariances with sediment transport parameters.

for n = 1..N

  1a) Assimilate hydrodynamic data from time t=t(n) to obtain an
      updated bathymetry at t(n).  Note, there is no need to consider
      the full sediment transport model here, as we are only updating
      the forecasted bathymetry from the previous time step time
      t(n-1).  That is, assume the hydrodynamics are only sensitive to
      bathymetry at time t(n), not to bathymetry at some later time
      dependent on sediment transport.

      That said, do use the previous cross-covariances to estimate
      sediment transport parameters from time t(n-1).  Record these
      estimates, but do not update them for the next forecast cycle.

  1b) After the outer loop iterations, make a new forecast for t(n+1)
      based on the updated initial bathymetry.  Provide the full
      covariance matrix for the updated bathymetry including
      cross-covariances with sediment transport parameters.

end
