
"Surfzone Inverse Modeling Toolkit (SIM-T)"

---
PURPOSE AND DIRECTORY STRUCTURE:

This is a collection of codes for 1DH morphodynamic modeling combined
with variational inverse (tangent-linear-adjoint, or TL-AD) methods.

I have broken the code up into modules/libraries, stored as
sub-directories in pwd.  The intention is to keep only the model codes
and model-verification codes in pwd, while application codes (i.e.,
for specific case studies) will live in the parent directory ../.

---
MODEL DESCRIPTION:

The models use a 1D coordinate system where x(1) is the most-offshore
(boundary) gridpoint, and +x is onshore.

The MAIN CODE is ./hydroSedModel.m.  This takes as input a bathymetry,
incident waves, and wind, and outputs waves, currents, sediment flux,
and the updated bathymetry over a user-specified integration time
(assuming constant sediment flux).  The sub-modules used to do the
calculations are described below, and each are separated into their
own sub-directories.  References for the sub-modules are found in
../refs.

  0) some preliminaries: wind stress is calculated following the
     simple parameterization used by Reniers et al. (2004).  Sediment
     fall velocity is calculated following Brown & Lawler (2003).

  1) hydro_ruessink2001: Computes 1DH hydrodynamics (waves and
     currents) by propagating the waves from the offshore boundary.
     Largely following Ruessink et al. (2001)

  2) udelta_reniers2004: Computes the near-bottom mean-flow current
     given depth-averaged currents, following the undertow model of
     Reniers et al. (2004).  This is only computed if the
     user-selected sediment transport sub-module requires it.

  3) Three different sub-modules have been implemented for calculating
     the cross-shore sediment flux, and can be found in
     ./qtransModels:

     a) Soulsby & van Rijn.  This is the simplest and by far least
        computationally expensive.  Is akin to XBeach, without the
        bells and whistles.

     b) van Der A et al. (2013).  Includes effects of asymmetric
        waves, phase lag between suspension and transport, bed slope,
        bed shear stress due to waves and currents.

     c) Dubarbier et al. (2015).  This is similar to the Unibest model
        from papers in Ruessink's orbit.

     One of the 3 sub-modules is selected by the user as an input.
     With the exception of Soulsby & van Rijn, the modules include
     wave asymmetry based on the parameterization of Ruessink et
     al. (2012).

  4) Finally, a simple upwind scheme is used to calculate the sediment
     flux gradient and update the bed.

---
DEVELOPMENT NOTES:

All notes taken during development of the NL-TL-AD code suite can be
found in ../theory.  These notes pertain to things like unravelling
the equations presented in references, and figuring out ways to handle
tricky TL-AD coding such as coupled nonlinear systems of equations.

---
CODE VERIFICATION:

At time of writing (April, 2019), the codes have been compared to one
another in terms of sediment flux, and found to produce predictions
with similar order of magnitude and x-shore distribution.  I have not
attempted a "validation" of the sediment flux predictions.

All TL-AD codes have been individually tested to verify that (a) TL
models match with small perturbations of their NL counterparts; and
(b) AD models pass the adjoint symmetry test to within machine
precision.  Test codes can be found in subdirectories */tl_ad_testers.
Additionally, the fully coupled master code hydroSedModel.m has passed
the same TL-AD tests, see ./tl_ad_testers.

  NOTE: the tl-ad testers were re-organized after initial development,
  along with the re-organization of modules into sub-directories.
  They may require adding some 'addpath' statements now that the code
  is not all in one directory.
